.TH WEBPINRC 5
.SH NAME
webpinrc \- webpin (8) configuration file reference
.SH DESCRIPTION
webpinrc may be used to control all default options of webpin.

By default, webpin looks for this file at the locations
.BR /etc/webpinrc
and
.BR ~/.webpinrc
.br
However, you may override this by specifying the command line argument
.BR \-\-config
to webpin.

.SH FORMAT
The format of webpinrc is divided in sections.
.br
Comment lines start with a # and are ignored.
.br
A directive line has the format:

option = value

Each setting has a compiled in default which may be modified in the
configuration file.

.SH BOOLEAN OPTIONS
The value for a boolean option may be set to

.nf
    yes | true | on
or
    no | false | off
.fi

Examples:
.nf
    some_boolean_option = on
    some_other_boolean_option = false
.fi

.SH SECTIONS
The configuration file is subdivided in the following sections,
with each section being denoted as
.BR [SECTION]
in the configuration file:
.TP
.B [General]
for general default options such as the query mode.
.TP
.B [Output]
for configuring the output.
.TP
.B [RPM]
for RPM support options.
.TP
.B [Network]
for network related options.

.SH GENERAL SECTION
The [General] section supports the following options:

.TP
.B mode
Valid values are
.BR simple
for the default query mode,
.BR name
for querying by package name,
.BR content
for querying by file names contained in packages.
.TP
.B distribution
for the default openSUSE distribution version to query, with valid values being
.BR 11.1 ,
.BR 11.0 ,
.BR 10.3 ,
.BR factory ,
and
.BR latest .

.SH OUTPUT SECTION
The [Output] section contains the following boolean options:
.TP
.B color
whether to enable ANSI escapes and colours (on) or not (off).
.br
This option is enabled by default.
.TP
.B theme
selects the colour scheme to use for coloured output.
.br
Valid values are:
.nf
- light: for light backgrounds (e.g. white), this is the default theme,
- dark: for dark backgrounds (e.g. black),
- none: disables colouring (same as color=no)
.fi
.TP
.B url
whether to display the repository URLs as well (repository names are
always shown).
.br
This option is disabled by default.
.TP
.B arch
whether to display package architecture information (on) or
not (off).
.br
This option is disabled by default.
.TP
.B verbose
whether to display progress information (on) or not (off).
.br
You might want to disable that option on dumb terminals or
when piping the output (e.g. to a pager like less).
.br
This option is enabled by default.
.TP
.B show_query_url
whether to display the URL of the query that is being sent to
the openSUSE Package Search service (on) or not (off).
.br
This option is enabled by default.

.SH RPM SECTION
The [RPM] section controls options regarding the local RPM database
support of webpin.
.TP
.B rpm
whether to enable local RPM database comparison for package results
returned by the Package Search webservice.
.br
When enabled, webpin will query your local RPM database to display
whether the packages are installed on your system or not, as well
as comparing the results with your local system (showing whether the
results are newer, older or the same version as yours).
.br
This option is disabled by default.
.TP
.B root
sets the root directory for accessing the RPM database.
.br
This option is useful if you want to compare results with packages
that are installed on a chrooted system.
.br
When not set, this option defaults to / and uses the RPM database
of the system you're running webpin on.

.SH NETWORK SECTION
The [Network] section controls options regarding network operations
when querying the openSUSE Package Search service.
.TP
.B timeout
sets the timeout in seconds for contacting, sending the query and
reading the response.
.br
The default value is set in /etc/webpinrc
.TP
.B proxy
sets the HTTP proxy to use for outgoing Package Search service requests,
using the format
.B host:port

Examples:
.br
proxy = myproxy.lan:8080
.br
proxy = 127.0.0.1:3128
.TP
.B proxy_auth
when set, enables proxy authentication (using the Basic Authentication scheme)
and defines the credentials (in clear text), using the format
.B username:password

Example:
.br
proxy_auth = joe:n8Aiklm

Note: to secure your proxy authentication password, make sure to make the
configuration file only readable for your user, with the following command:
.br
chmod 600 ~/.webpinrc

.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
.nf
[General]
mode = simple
distribution = factory

[Output]
color = on
theme = dark
url = on
arch = on
verbose = off
show_query_url = on

[RPM]
rpm = on
root = /var/build/chroot/11.1/x86_64

[Network]
timeout = 120
proxy = proxyhost:3128
proxy_auth = john:doe
.fi

.SH FILES
.PP
.nf
   /etc/webpinrc
   ~/.webpinrc
.fi

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR webpin (8)

.SH AUTHOR
Written by Pascal Bleser <pascal.bleser@opensuse.org>
